New Features
HTML5 introduces a number of new elements and attributes that can help you in building modern websites. Here is a set of some of the most prominent features introduced in HTML5.

New Semantic Elements − These are like <header>, <footer>, and <section>.

Forms 2.0 − Improvements to HTML web forms where new attributes have been introduced for <input> tag.

Persistent Local Storage − To achieve without resorting to third-party plugins.

WebSocket − A next-generation bidirectional communication technology for web applications.

Server-Sent Events − HTML5 introduces events which flow from web server to the web browsers and they are called Server-Sent Events (SSE).

Canvas − This supports a two-dimensional drawing surface that you can program with JavaScript.

Audio & Video − You can embed audio or video on your webpages without resorting to third-party plugins.

Geolocation − Now visitors can choose to share their physical location with your web application.

Microdata − This lets you create your own vocabularies beyond HTML5 and extend your web pages with custom semantics.

Drag and drop − Drag and drop the items from one location to another location on the same webpage.


HTML5 Document
The following tags have been introduced for better structure −

section − This tag represents a generic document or application section. It can be used together with h1-h6 to indicate the document structure.

article − This tag represents an independent piece of content of a document, such as a blog entry or newspaper article.

aside − This tag represents a piece of content that is only slightly related to the rest of the page.

header − This tag represents the header of a section.

footer − This tag represents a footer for a section and can contain information about the author, copyright information, et cetera.

nav − This tag represents a section of the document intended for navigation.

dialog − This tag can be used to mark up a conversation.

figure − This tag can be used to associate a caption together with some embedded content, such as a graphic or video.